General Climbing FAQs

What is belaying?

Belaying, is a term derived from sailing meaning to “hold fast”. In climbing parlance, it means to manage a 
rope for a climber using a dynamic friction device. It’s not hard to learn how to belay, we do however recommend 
that you employ the guidance of a certified professional to “teach you the ropes” and provide the right environment 
to practice. See our Belay Class section to get started.




What is an Auto-Belay?

An Auto-Belay is a great tool to climb on your own. We have 4 TRUBLUE™ auto-belays in the gym that allow you 
flexibility to get in a quick great endurance workout. Without having to rely on a partner. No experience necessary.




I have never climbed before, what is involved starting out?

Awesome news! Welcome to Ascenders, we have you covered. Please see our
programs section for a detailed list of options to get you started.





How old do I have to be to climb?

We find that most parents try to start their child climbing at about age 3 or 4 depending on the child’s interest.  
If you already know how to belay, or are willing to learn, we can teach you how manage the gear for your child. Due to our 
supervision ratios, our group climbing sessions start at age 5.  Good news for our older climbers, there is no upper age 
limit! The low impact nature of climbing makes it an excellent choice for aging fitness seekers.




Do I need to have strong upper body strength to enjoy climbing?

No, not too worry if you feel you can’t pull yourself up the wall.  An efficient climber is able to make the most of his or her 
strongest muscles, the core and lower body. Using a “feet first mentality” you can focus on your foot placements, maintain good 
balance and push with your legs. Your arms will get stronger and you will get a total body work out through climbing.




Do I need to bring my own gear to climb?

We do recommend that you purchase your own gear to personalize fit and function. However, we offer affordable rental gear on a 
drop in basis, or a 7-time rental package if you plan on waiting a bit before getting your own gear.  For prices and more 
information please visit our lessons page. Rental gear is provided free of charge for Group bookings





What should I wear?

Anything that you would work out in, should be suitable. Breathable, slightly loose fitting or stretchy works the best. Keep 
in mind; in most cases you’ll be wearing a harness, so make sure clothing does not interfere with proper fit of climbing gear.
