Climbing Lessons And Programs
We offer a variety of programs for you, your family or organization. 


DROP-IN SESSIONS

New to climbing but don’t know where to start? Or are you looking to burn some energy while trying 
something fun? Come join us for our weekly drop-in sessions!

We provide all necessary equipment and experienced staff to tour you around the facility and help you scale 
our walls!

Times:

Sat/Sun, 3-5pm

For ages 6 and up
2 hour session – please arrive by 3pm
Tues, 5:30-8:30pm 

For ages 14 and up (adults are encouraged to come too!)
3 hours – join us anytime between 4:30 and 8:30
Cost: $20 (tax included)/person

Registration: Though these sessions are on a drop-in basis, spaces are limited and we recommend 
calling ahead to reserve a spot – 604-234-9349. 

If you are a group of 3 or more, consider booking your own Just Hanging Out Session (see below) to ensure 
your whole group gets to participate at a time that works for you!

—

JUST HANGING OUT

For groups of 3 or more who want to try climbing for the first time or as a fun activity with friends – book
 a session and let our experienced staff belay you as you scramble up the walls. A discount is available for 
groups (more than six people). All sessions must be booked in advance. 

Cost: $20 (tax included)/person

—

WOMEN’S CLIMBING NIGHT

Sessions start on Sept 14th, 2015

Time: Mondays from 7pm-9pm

Join us for a women’s only climbing session coached by one of our finest ladies! This drop-in based program 
offers a fun, instructional session designed to help women of all abilities improve their skills amongst a 
close-knit group. Sessions will focus on learning and refining movement skills and personal progression.

Cost:

$20 for Students – Includes Day pass and harness
$24 for Adults – Includes Day pass and harness
$10 if you already have a pass.
Registration: Drop-in Basis – See you Monday Night!

—

INTRODUCTORY LESSONS 

For those 12 and over, we’ll teach you the basics so you can climb safely indoors. You’ll learn about the 
equipment, how to use it, and how to belay. We’ll also show you some basic climbing techniques. This two hour 
course will get you ready to take our belay test, and includes equipment for the lesson, and a one-week pass 
to the gym.

We offer lessons most evenings and weekends, but you need to book in advance – fill out the general lesson form 
or call us at 604-234-9349.

Cost: $35 (tax included) for students and $50 (tax included) for adults.

—

LEARN TO LEAD INDOORS 

Do you climb at least 5.10, and have you climbed for 6 months or more? If you are 14 and older, tie into the sharp 
end of the rope and learn to lead. We’ll teach you the art of indoor leading, including how to clip, rest, fall 
and belay a lead climber. This three hour course requires advance booking, and costs $50 (tax included) per person.

—

ORGANIZATIONAL TEAM BUILDING

Nothing says trust like holding the other end of the rope while your colleague scales a high wall. The Ascenders 
partners with professional facilitators and coaches to help your team work more efficiently. As this program 
is highly tailored, times and prices vary. If you are interested in a unique but effective corporate session, 
contact us for more information.

—

TECHNIQUE AND TRAINING

All climbers feel stalled once in awhile, and we’ll give you a push in the right direction. Whether its shortcomings 
in technique, endurance, power or attitude, our technique and training sessions are designed to pump up your footwork, 
routines and headspace. Our special instructors can pull down hard, and will show you how. A one-hour session is 
$35 (tax included), with a climber / instructor ratio of 2 to 1, so you get personalized attention. 

 