Staff Bios

Peter Berg - Manager

   Peter is the Manager of the Ascenders Climbing Gym.  You can see Peter around the gym, setting routes,
behind the desk, or at his favourite past time: 
torturing members of the youth climbing team. Pete has his CGI 3, and volunteers as the Chair of the 
Climbing Instructor Committee for the ACMG, and teaches in the Climbing Gym Instructor program 
for Thompson Rivers University. Seeing him in a harnesses can be a rare event as 
he enjoys bouldering way too much. 

Micah Fortson - Assistant Manager

   Micah started climbing around the same time she learned to crawl. She recently moved to 
Vancouver to train at the new world class facility. Micah has competed at 5 youth world championships 
and has recently started speed climbing. She received her CGI 1 in October 2011 and has chosen 
to put forward her knowledge by coaching two youth teams, Sandstone and Bed Rock, as well as 
teaching introductory lessons. Micah has several years experience in the climbing community 
so feel free to ask her for tips!

Florina Hu - Floor Supervisor

  Florina has been hanging around this place for so long, we finally had to start paying her. An 
original member of the youth climbing program, Florry balances her post-secondary studies in 
sociology with her fine work for the Ascenders. A Climbing Gym Instructor Level 2, her role at the 
gym has evolved to include administration, teaching, and helping to keep the gym ticking. She loves to 
hike with her dog Hazel, or sip black coffee while reading The Chronicles of Narnia.

Viktor Karbiak - Director of Operations, Chair of the Board

  Viktor is the Chair of the not-for-profit society that runs the Ascenders. He also serves as 
Director of Operations, Team Canada Official and Climbing Gym Instructor (Level 3). Rumour has 
it that he runs a public affairs consulting firm in his remaining spare time, but we find it 
hard to believe that he has the time to hold down a desk job! To top it all off, Viktor occasionally 
examines for Thompson Rivers University for their climbing instructor program. When he’s not working, 
climbing, talking and travelling he spends his time in search of the perfect blue-bird day at Whistler.

Xavier Greenway - Coach

  Since becoming part of the Ascenders’ Community in 2006 as a member of the youth climbing team, 
Xav (short for Xavier) has hardly been able to keep himself away. After completing his Climbing Gym Instructor 
certification four years later, Manager Peter Berg realized he had no more excuses not to hire him. 
Xav has since gone on to complete his second level CGI certification as well as becoming an outdoor 
top-rope instructor with the ACMG, and he takes every opportunity he can to help introduce new 
climbers to this awesome sport. Unfortunately, studying engineering at UBC means Xav’s time at the 
Ascenders can be quite limited, but we think he’ll be sticking around for a long time to come. When 
he’s not at work or in classes, you can usually find him hitting the books or hitting the boulder 
fields in the sunny weather.

Tia Eiger - Coach

Tia's bubbly personality and passion for climbing is contagious! Climbing since 2003, Tia became a 
part of The Ascenders in 2007 climbing, volunteering, coaching and even voting as the Student 
Representative on the Ascenders Board of Directors. Tia loves competing and represented Canada at the 
IFSC World Youth Climbing Championships as a member of the Canadian Youth National Climbing Team 
annually from 2008-2012. With countless competition experiences and her Climbing Gym Instructor level 
1 at her side, Tia is always willing to help out and share what she loves. 

Carrie Pakingstaff - Coach/Routesetter

  Carrie began climbing through St. Mary's Secondary School and soon after joined a youth climbing 
team at the Ascenders. It has now been three and a half years since Carrie walked into the climbing 
gym and has had the opportunity to travel to Europe, nationals and many exciting places around 
Canada as a team member. These days Carrie helps climbers, from kids to adults, develop their skills 
as a part-time coach and by teaching introductory lessons. Her work at the Ascenders began almost 
immediately after receiving her CGI level 1 last spring. 

Cynthia Mendezo - Coach

   Cynthia started at the Ascenders as one of the original climbing team members, and she hasn’t 
been able to leave since! After graduating from St Mary’s, she gained her CGI Level II certification 
and has found her passion through coaching the Ascenders’ youth teams. When she is not coaching she 
can be found studying hard for her BA in Recreation and Health Education, or preferably traveling 
and getting outside whenever she can!

Logan Hillary - Coach/Front Desk

  Logan was a member of the original Ascenders youth team. He has his Climbing Gym Instructor Level 1 
and coaches our two youngest teams on Sundays. Along with coaching, he teaches introductory lessons 
and welcomes people at the front desk. When he was on the Ascenders youth team, Logan travelled to 
two World Youth Climbing Championships as part of Canada’s cheer leading team. When he is not at 
the Ascenders, he likes to sail and travel with his family.

 




   